A paper published in the journal Genetics and Human Behavior claims to find a "significant link" between autism and a type of booster vaccine given in childhood.

The paper focuses on the mercury-based preservative thimerosal and considers the possibility that the injectable vaccine contributes to autism-related symptoms.

These include poor social skills, language delays and seizures, according to the paper.

Thimerosal, which is commonly used as a preservative in vaccines, was phased out of children's vaccines in 2010.

In 2010, the Food and Drug Administration declared that thimerosal was safe.

"We don't know of any adverse effects associated with the endocrine-disrupting, mercury-containing preservative in vaccines, and believe that this outcome is beneficial to public health," said Dr. Lisa M. Collins, president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, in an organization statement issued in 2010.

The new study, led by researchers at Tel Aviv University, is based on case studies of two women with autistic children and one non-autistic mother.

The researchers found that autism symptoms tended to worsen after only one dose of the thimerosal-containing hepatitis B booster vaccine.

"The use of unadjuvanted Hepatitis B booster vaccines, against which the only adverse effects are fatigue, headache, cough, and fever, remains a substantial and unrefined source of vaccine-related injury and disability worldwide," the study authors wrote.

Using a mathematical model, the study authors described multiple risks associated with the use of unadjuvanted injectable vaccines.

Among them, vaccines increased the risk of seizures, such as those associated with autism; autoimmune disorders and cancer.

"There are other types of vaccines that pose similar risk to autism, including rotavirus vaccines and the polio vaccine," said lead author Professor Uri Ayalon, head of the pediatrics department at Tel Aviv University.

The authors also found that the autism risk increased by twofold in children aged 3 to 10 who received the hepatitis B booster vaccine against Hepatitis B, regardless of the following vaccination schedules: aged 9 months or older with only one dose; or under 4 months old and only one dose.

"Since these vaccines are widely used, regardless of age, it may be important to limit its utilization," the researchers wrote.

Lead author Dr. Yonatan Schulmann said there were no apparent risks associated with a standard influenza vaccination.

"The flu vaccine probably represents an acceptable source of vaccine-related injury and disability," he said.

"This is not true for most vaccines. The flu vaccine is relatively inexpensive (free of charges) and has no significant health effects," he said.

The timing of vaccination is also important, said Schulmann.

"Autism spectrum disorders are most often diagnosed in early adolescence, the upper age range at which it is most likely that vaccination data is available," he said.

Furthermore, the authors said they found no clear differences between children who received hepatitis B vaccine against Hepatitis B and other children.